<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>ToscanaJ Glossary</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Glossary of terms used in ToscanaJ</h1>
		<p>This is a list of terms used in the UI and code of ToscanaJ in alphabetical order.</p>
		<dl>
			<dt>All Matches (for a set of attributes)</dt>
			<dd>All objects that fulfill the set of given attributes and maybe others.</dd>
			<dt>Attribute</dt>
			<dd>The attributes used to distinguish the objects, denoted as labels above the nodes.</dd>
			<dt>Attribute Contingent (of a concept)</dt>
			<dd>All attributes which are introduced at a specific concept, i.e. that are fulfilled for this concept
			but none of its superconcepts, i.e. that are in the label attached to the concept.</dd>
			<dt>Bottom, Bottom Node, Bottom Element</dt>
			<dd>The lowest node / smallest concept in the diagram.</dd>
			<dt>Canvas</dt>
			<dd>The drawing area for the diagrams, in ToscanaJ represented by the "Diagram View".</dd>
			<dt>Concept</dt>
			<dd>A pair of a set of attributes (the intent) and a pair of objects (the extent), represented in a line diagram
			by a "Node".</dd>
			<dt>Concept Lattice</dt>
			<dd>The "Lattice" of "Concepts" created by the technique of Formal Concept Analysis.</dd>
			<dt>Conceptual Schema</dt>
			<dd>A collection of objects, attributes, diagrams and additional information needed to display them. Stored in
			the CSX files (Conceptual Schema in XML) and loaded by ToscanaJ. Can be either "database-connected" (i.e. 
			the objects are stored in a relational database) or "memory-mapped" (i.e. the objects are stored in the file and
			parsed into the main memory of the computer).</dd>
			<dt>Contingent</dt>
			<dd>Shorthand for either "Attribute Contingent" or "Object Contingent", typically the latter.</dd>
			<dt>Diagram History</dt>			
			<dd>The list of visisted, shown and forthcoming diagrams, refered to as "past", "current" and "future"
			diagrams.</dd>
			<dt>Diagram Organizer</dt>
			<dd>The left part of the main window where diagrams can be selected for viewing and the history is
			displayed.</dd>
			<dt>Diagram Schema</dt>
			<dd>A set of colors, widths and other layout settings that defines the look of a diagram.</dd>
			<dt>Diagram View</dt>
			<dd>The part of the main window that shows the diagram.</dd>
			<dt>Direct Product of Lattices</dt>
			<dd>.....</dd>
			<dt>Downset (of a concept)</dt>
			<dd>All concepts that are subconcepts of a specific concept, including itself. (Still named "Ideal" in some 
			places in the code)</dd>
			<dt>Exact matches (for a set of attributes)</dt>
			<dd>All objects that fulfill the set of given attributes but nothing else.</dd>
			<dt>Extent</dt>
			<dd>The objects that fulfill the attributes (the intent) of a concept.</dd>
			<dt>Filter</dt>
			<dd>The set of objects used to constrain the current diagram, calculated from the concepts double-clicked
			in visisted diagrams. (Still used instead of "Upset" in some places)</dd>
			<dt>Highlighting</dt>
			<dd>The process or the result of single-clicking on a node: the node itself and its upset and downset are
			shown with different color/line widths.</dd>
			<dt>Ideal (deprecated)</dt>
			<dd>Still used instead of "Downset" in some places in the code.</dd>
			<dt>Intent (of a concept)</dt>
			<dd>All attributes fulfilled for the concept.</dd>
			<dt>Label</dt>
			<dd>A box with a textual list or a number representing a set of attributes or objects.</dd>
			<dt>Lattice</dt>
			<dd>A graph structure where for each pair of two nodes exactly one lowest common ancestor and one highest
			common descendant exists.</dd>
			<dt>Nested Diagrams</dt>
			<dd>Diagrams which nodes contain other diagrams, representing the direct product of the involved lattices.</dd>
			<dt>Node</dt>
			<dd>The representation of a "Concept" in a diagram.</dd>
			<dt>Object</dt>
			<dd>An element of the domain of discourse.</dd>
			<dt>Object Contingent (of a concept)</dt>
			<dd>All objects which are introduced at a specific concept, i.e. that are in the extent of this concept
			but none of its subconcepts, i.e. that are in the exact matches for this concept.</dd>
			<dt>Percentual Distribution</dt>
			<dd>The information of the relative distribution of objects on the "Object Contingents" of the "Concepts" in the
			diagram, given as percent value.</dd>
			<dt>Top, Top Node, Top Element</dt>
			<dd>The uppermost node / greatest concept in the diagram.</dd>
			<dt>Upset (of a concept)</dt>
			<dd>All superconcepts of the concept, including itself. (Still names "Filter" in some places in the code)</dd>
		</dl>
	</body>
</html>
